DOC: document how to make and run a minimal caproto container (#599)
caproto/caproto: doc/source/containers.rst

****************
Caproto-in-a-box
****************

.. highlight:: bash

.. contents::

Build a container with Buildah
------------------------------

> To build a minimal container (based of Fedora) use the following bash script ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a minimal container (based on Fedora) use the following bash script ::
```

   #! /usr/bin/bash
   set -e
   set -o xtrace

   buildah images
   buildah containers
   container=$(buildah from fedora)
   buildah run $container -- dnf -y install python3 ipython3 python3-pip g++ gcc

>    buildah run $container -- pip3 install ophyd databroker bluesky caproto

Reviewer 2: It might be worth doing `caproto[standard]` here to get `netifaces` and `dpkt`.

Also, why include the others, especially `databroker`?

Reviewer: `"minimal container"` noted above: agreed on all @danielballan's points here.

Author: Yeah, working on slimming it down.  The downsides of documenting the random walk.

   # this is the thing you want to change to spawn your IOC

>    buildah config --cmd "python3 -m caproto.ioc_examples.simple --list-pvs -vvv" $container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   buildah config --cmd "python3 -m caproto.ioc_examples.simple --list-pvs" $container
```

   buildah commit $container caproto

> Running container with podman

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running containers with podman
```

-----------------------------

> Be default ports are not forwarded out of the container, do so launch as ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default ports are not forwarded out of the container, to do so run::
```

****************
Caproto-in-a-box
****************

.. highlight:: bash

.. contents::

Build a container with Buildah
------------------------------

To build a minimal container (based on Fedora) use the following bash script ::

   #! /usr/bin/bash
   set -e
   set -o xtrace

   buildah images
   buildah containers
   container=$(buildah from fedora)
   buildah run $container -- dnf -y install python3 ipython3 python3-pip python3-numpy python3-netifaces
   buildah run $container -- pip3 install caproto[standard]
   # this is the thing you want to change to spawn your IOC
   buildah config --cmd "python3 -m caproto.ioc_examples.simple --list-pvs" $container
   buildah unmount $container
   buildah commit $container caproto

Running containers with podman

> -----------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
------------------------------
```

By default ports are not forwarded out of the container, to do so run::

  podman run -dt -p 5064:5064/udp -p 5064:5064/tcp caproto

Running a sandbox with podman
-----------------------------

To generate a similar image, but for the bluesky collection stack::

  #! /usr/bin/bash
  set -e
  set -o xtrace

  container=$(buildah from fedora)
  buildah run $container -- dnf -y install python3 ipython3 python3-pip g++ gcc python3-PyQt5 python3-matplotlib python3-devel python3-netifaces python3-h5py python3-scipy python3-numcodecs python3-pandas

>   buildah run $container -- pip3 install ophyd databroker bluesky caproto

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  buildah run $container -- pip3 install caproto[standard]
```

By default ports are not forwarded out of the container, to do so run::

  podman run -dt -p 5064:5064/udp -p 5064:5064/tcp caproto

Running a sandbox with podman
-----------------------------

To generate a similar image, but for the bluesky collection stack::

  #! /usr/bin/bash
  set -e
  set -o xtrace

  container=$(buildah from fedora)
  buildah run $container -- dnf -y install python3 ipython3 python3-pip g++ gcc python3-PyQt5 python3-matplotlib python3-devel python3-netifaces python3-h5py python3-scipy python3-numcodecs python3-pandas

>   buildah run $container -- pip3 install ophyd databroker bluesky caproto

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  buildah run $container -- pip3 install ophyd databroker bluesky caproto[standard]
```
